Welcome, brothers and sisters.
Here are some of this month's highlights.
How should we view counsel?
Does it apply to us, even if we don't like the way it was given?
In times of crisis, how does the organization respond to help our brothers and sisters?
And we will go behind the scenes of last year's convention drama about King Hezekiah.
This is the May program of JW Broadcasting.
Let's begin by visiting a family in Stockholm, Sweden.
The parents of Sama and Christina have two daughters,
Talita and Isabella.
When Talita was born, the doctor found cataracts in both of her eyes.
A cataract is a clouding of the eyes' natural lens.
So the doctor had to operate so that Talita wouldn't lose her sight completely,
a terrifying situation for any parent.
Today, Talita is seven years old and almost blind in one eye, but completely blind in the other.
Teaching a child about Jehovah and the system of things is already a challenge,
even without physical ailments involved.
But let's find out how Talita's parents rose to the challenge,
making sure that she received a proper spiritual education despite her poor vision.
I look forward to not having poor sight anymore,
and that I can play with a bear and a lion and just sit on the back of a tiger.
Jehovah gives us a fantastic promise in Isaiah 35-5.
The eyes of the blind will be opened.
It's been a challenge to get to where we are today,
with thanks Jehovah for all the help he has given us.
As soon as Talita was able to leave the house after operation,
we made sure to go to the meetings.
It helped us a lot to be able to throw our burden on Jehovah.
We prayed together, we cried a lot together because it was so hard.
One of the challenges is that we have to give Talita audio description constantly.
We have to tell her who is coming in and what is happening.
We get so many amazing materials on jw.org and also through the congregation.
She really loves to read, learn from the great teacher.
It has questions which make her a part of the story.
She has a very good memory and therefore she remembers a lot of what she reads.
So when we are with friends, she often quizzes them.
You see, you see how you think.
You just discard your own, okay, then I'll do you that.
I really like to sing the songs in my song book.
Talita's spiritual goal is to learn more of our kingdom songs.
We get so much help from the beautiful music on the website
and also from the Caleb and Sophia videos.
She knows many of the stories from my book of Bible stories
so she can answer in her own words.
We will ask the question like, do you know this about David?
And if she knows the answer, then we encourage her to answer at the meeting.
When I give an answer at the meetings, Jehovah becomes happy because he loves children.
She often asks the friends, do you love Jehovah?
So she feels very united with them.
One of the best moments where we saw that Talita's spirituality had grown
was when she came home from a sleepover at her grandparents' house.
My parents are not Jehovah's Witnesses
and her grandmother had said that God doesn't exist.
So when Talita came home, she said,
and then when I was going to sleep, I prayed to Jehovah.
Would you please help grandmother to realise that you do exist, that you are real?
The fantasies go up but we are high.
We try to keep our wonderful hope and life.
So we often talk about what we will do in paradise.
We really look forward to when Talita will be able to see again
living in a paradise with all our friends.
It's going to be wonderful.
I think that Jehovah looks forward to looking at me when I play with a tiger.
I'll have to make sure that I remember the names of Joseph's brothers
in case I meet Talita and she decides to quiz me.
Her parents have done a good job in raising such a fine young sister.
And together with them, we eagerly look forward to the benefits of the new system.
Isaiah 35-5 says,
at that time, the eyes of the blind will be opened.
Such divine reminders can truly warm our heart.
And Jehovah's Reminders not only provide us comfort,
but can also help us make important decisions in our everyday life.
This brings us to our music video, which is entitled,
I Keep Your Reminders.
Did you notice that it was a Bible-trained conscience
that helped our sister make a wise decision?
She knew what potential danger lay ahead.
Yes, the reminders from God's Word guided her.
The theme for our program this month is,
Treasure Jehovah's Reminders.
And it's based on Psalm 19.7,
where we're told,
the reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy,
making the inexperienced one wise.
In the original language, the word here translated as reminder
comes from a root word meaning to go over again to repeat.
Reminders have always been an essential part of Jehovah's teaching.
In ancient Israel, God's people continually received commandments,
regulations, and reminders.
In fact, Jehovah tells us that he sent his prophets again and again
to repeatedly remind his people of their responsibilities.
The Apostle Peter felt the need to give reminders
even to those who were well established in the truth.
Notice how he describes this as second Peter 1, 12 and 13.
For this reason, I intend always to remind you of these things,
although you know them, and are well established in the truth
that is present in you.
But I consider it right as long as I'm in this tabernacle,
to stir you with reminders.
In verse 15, he goes on to give the reason why he felt the need
to give the brothers reminders.
He says,
I will always do my utmost so that after my departure,
you may be able to recall these things for yourselves.
So Peter was determined to help the brothers and sisters in his day
to remember or recall the teachings they had already learned.
It shouldn't come as a surprise then if today a lot of our teaching
involves reminders.
It follows the pattern set by Jehovah in ancient Israel
and with the first century Christians.
But why do we need reminders?
Let's consider three reasons.
First, let's look at Psalm 103 verse 2.
There it says,
Let me praise Jehovah.
May I never forget all that he has done.
Why then do we need reminders?
Simply put, because we forget.
If we had perfect memories, we wouldn't need so many reminders.
Even in everyday life, many of us use little nuts to remind ourselves
of what we need to do.
And who of us hasn't seen the need for a list of reminders when going shopping?
Only to realize when we return that we forgot to get one of the important items we needed to purchase.
If reminders are important in everyday life, how much more so in matters that involve our relationship with Jehovah?
Let's read Luke 10 verses 39 and 40.
Speaking of Martha, we are told,
she also had a sister called Mary,
who sat down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what he was saying.
Martha, on the other hand, was distracted with attending to many duties.
What was Martha's problem?
She was distracted.
So the second reason why we need reminders is that like Martha, at times we too become distracted.
Although we may already know a vital fact,
that fact might get put into the back of our mind figuratively speaking,
because other matters are demanding her attention.
Satan is the great distractor.
He tries to turn our attention away from the true issues of our day.
People in general have become more and more distracted by entertainment and other non-essential matters.
No wonder that Satan has succeeded in misleading so many.
They don't even realize what has happened.
Reason number three is alluded to at Matthew 24 verse 45.
Who really is the faithful and discrete slave?
Who is master appointed over his domestics to give them their food at the proper time?
Notice that the spiritual food is given to us at the proper time.
Our circumstances in life are continually changing.
How often do we hear that was just what I needed?
We've all experienced that haven't we?
So what are three of the reasons why we need reminders?
One, because we tend to forget things.
Two, we often become distracted.
Three, our changed circumstances may require a reminder of something we already knew
but didn't fully need at that time.
So that brings us to the next question.
What will help us to remember?
It's interesting to note that Jehovah has used many ways to remind his people of what they should do.
At numbers chapter 10 verse 10, we're told that the various festivals were given as reminders,
especially the celebration of the Passover.
That means that every time the Israelites prepared and celebrated one of these festivals,
they were reminded of important matters such as how Jehovah provides for his people
and how he has saved them in the past.
Something similar happens today at the commemoration of the Lord's Eve, the meal.
Not only do we hear the reminders from God's Word,
but the act of passing the bread and wine also serves as an action that reminds us
of what Jesus did in our behalf.
But what do we need to do in order for those reminders to have a beneficial impact on our lives?
Notice what Psalm 119 verse 99 says.
It tells us, I have more insight than all my teachers because I ponder over your reminders.
Yes, we need to ponder over these reminders.
That means not just listening to or reading them,
but it involves thinking deeply about them, meditating on their value.
Just to listen or read without meditating is like looking through the lens of a movie camera
without pressing the record button.
We see things and hear things, but nothing is recorded.
So we need to meditate, visualize and review these reminders.
This will help us to remember what we learn.
But figuratively speaking, there is something else that we can do to press the record button.
That means we don't have to wait for someone else to give us a reminder.
We can make our own reminder.
How can we do so?
The answer to that question is highlighted in Jehovah's instructions to Moses as found at Exodus 1714.
Jehovah now said to Moses,
write this as a memorial, or the footnote says, reminder in the book and repeat it to Joshua.
What's the point?
Write down new things we want to remember.
Some brothers use a notebook or exercise book to write down a list of interesting points that they want to remember.
Then they look through the book from time to time to remind themselves of those points.
Many of us do this with our notes from conventions and assemblies.
Of course to do that successfully, you need to remember where you put the notebook.
Additionally, we have to be careful that we don't write down every little fact.
Otherwise, we may become overwhelmed with all the information.
We can make these notes either on paper or electronically using computers or electronic devices.
Whatever system we use, let's make lists of things that we want to remember.
Many brothers have found it good to have two separate lists.
One list could be subjects, perhaps points that we want to use in the ministry or in our own lives.
Another, scriptures, explanations that clarify the meaning of certain verses.
With regard to notes on scriptures, let's ask a very important question.
Do you have a study Bible?
What is a study Bible?
Perhaps it's a separate Bible to the one you take in the ministry.
It's a Bible for you to write in so that you're reminded of things that you've learned.
These are some of the things we can do with a study Bible.
Highlight or underline some words or verses.
That will make it easier to find them again.
But remember, not to make too many highlights or marks, otherwise nothing will stand out.
Write a summary of points and scriptures you want to remember on the blank pages in the front or the back of your Bible.
Write notes in the margin. That's what Gilead students often do.
Of course, you need the right type of pen or pencil that won't bleed through to the other side of the page.
What type of things could you write in the margin?
Perhaps new points that you learn while reading magazines or attending meetings and assemblies.
If you learn a new point, ask yourself what verses being explained and then write a brief comment in the margin next to that verse.
Let's take an example.
Perhaps you are reading the sermon on the Mount and you get to Matthew 7 verses 24 through 27.
That's the illustration about the two men who build houses, one on sand and the other on rock.
As you research this in Watchtower Library or the Research Guide, you come across the article,
are you building on sand or on rock in the November 1, 2008 Watchtower?
What points could you write in the margin to help you remember the explanation?
Perhaps you could write sand equals build on the surface.
Rock equals dig down deep.
Digging equals doing and applying.
You might even put Luke 6, 46 through 48 there.
If you still have room and you're writing a small, you could add something like this.
Not here as only, but doers.
Both houses in same location, same tests, foundations different.
Now every time you read those verses, you'll be reminded of what they mean.
Perhaps like me, you've had several study Bibles over the years.
I think back to the first one I used, it was like this big green Bible.
Then later that was replaced by another Bible, this black covered Bible.
And then further still we had another Bible, the reference Bible.
And of course now for most of us, we have a large print Bible.
This does however highlight a challenge we might experience.
It can be frustrating when a new edition of the Bible comes out.
How do you transfer all your study notes over to the new Bible?
Additionally, our beloved study Bible may wear out or will still be lost, stolen, burned, ruined, run over, blown away.
So that's the advantage of using an electronic list.
It doesn't matter what type of file you use, it can be updated very easily.
And you can even make copies, not like the print copy that already has the old idea written in the margin.
Even now in English, we have the books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke in our electronic study Bible on JW.org and WOL.
Later in the program, we have some exciting news about how JW Library will help us in this regard.
But I'll leave that for later.
Really, having a study Bible is not only helpful, but it also makes our personal study far more interesting.
How so?
Every time we read or study a publication, we'll find ourselves searching for new points that we can write in our study Bible.
This way, we'll be doing what the Psalmist expressed at Psalm 119, verse 111.
We will take Jehovah's Reminders as our permanent possession or heritage for his reminders are the joy of our hearts.
But do you agree that sometimes the reminders we get may be less than pleasant?
Maybe they even hurt.
In this dramatization, pay attention to how we should respond to counsel.
Today started out well.
But after the meeting tonight, my feelings were hurt.
Earlier in the week, we invited some friends over to watch a movie.
And apparently, his new young elder heard about it.
So he counseled me about it after the meeting, saying I should give my movie choices some thought.
I just didn't like the way he gave the counsel.
He's only 27th.
That's too young.
The next day, we had plans to go out in the ministry with Brother Kong and his wife.
But the motivation just wasn't there.
I asked to speak with Brother Kong alone.
I told him what happened and how we didn't feel the counsel applied to us.
I can understand how you might feel.
But be young too. Be absolutely honest with me.
Do you feel there is no valid reason for that counsel?
Or maybe there were some scenes that could have been less violent.
But the way he gave the counsel, he didn't even ask how we felt.
Young Su, what is the only way for us to receive perfect counsel?
From a perfect man?
That's right.
And is Jesus here on the earth today?
He was right.
Counsel can only be perfect if it's given from a perfect person.
Still, this counsel about our movie choices would have been so much easier.
If it came from someone older and more experienced like Brother Kong,
well, he must have sensed what I was thinking.
Because he helped me to remember something from the Bible.
When Job underwent severe trials, it was the younger Alayhu who helped Job adjust his thinking correctly.
It required humility on Job's part to listen to someone younger and less experienced.
He then read Proverbs chapter 19, verse 20.
Listen to counsel and accept discipline in order to become wise in your future.
The point was clear.
Keep our focus on the counsel, not the counselor.
I later shared Brother Kong's comments with my wife.
We both realized we should welcome all counsel from Jehovah.
I'm sure it took courage for that young elder to approach me about the matter.
But I'm so glad he did.
Because in the end, his counsel was just another example of God's love.
Yes, we all need reminders.
Did you notice some of the main teaching points in this dramatization?
First, we need to be humble when we receive counsel.
Second, we need to keep our focus on the counsel, not the counselor.
And the young elder likely learned from the experience too.
Perhaps next time, after conferring with the seasoned elder, he might handle matters with a little bit more tact and discretion.
But we can't rely solely on receiving reminders from others to keep our spirituality intact.
We need to do our part.
One of the tools that can help us to actively search out reminders is JW Library.
This amazing app has been installed on over 15 million devices.
But do you know how much work it takes to develop and maintain this app?
Well, we are now going to look behind the scenes and meet some of the brothers who have either worked on this project or helped to organize that work.
This really is an opportunity to visit an area in Bethel that you don't get to see on tour.
Of course, there are many brothers associated with the work.
But we would like you to get to know three of these very hard working brothers.
And let me introduce them to you.
First of all, brother Pierre Christiansen, the overseer of MEPS programming.
Now Pierre, you've been in this country working in the US Bethel for a number of years.
But where are you from originally?
I was born in Denmark and served there in the brains for years.
So when did you and your wife bear it come to the United States?
In 1994.
And our first year was in Brooklyn.
And then we had 18 years in Patterson and then back to Brooklyn again for three and a half year.
And now we're in Warwick since November last year.
Well, I know you worked in translation services for a while because in fact the two of us worked together in the same department there for a while.
But what type of work have you been involved with since you've come to the United States?
Lots of exciting and challenging jobs and working in translation services.
That was training and support for our translators worldwide.
Now in MEPS programming, that is all about distribution of spiritual food to all our brothers and sisters.
So we have a ton of work and a lot of challenges.
But I'm also working with a lot of very, very talented brothers and sisters.
So it's a lot of fun and it's great going to work every day.
That's great to hear Pierre.
In fact, I'm even tempted to come back and work with you.
We would love that.
I think I'd love it too.
Well, let's turn our attention to brother Alfredo Son and you're the assistant officer of MEPS programming.
In fact, you and I worked together in Mexico back in 2003.
Could you tell us a little bit about what you were doing at that time?
My last work assignment involved overseeing the large translation department there.
It was an amazing privilege to work with translators in sign language and the indigenous languages.
A true joy to contribute to preparing publications for those in the minority groups.
So when did you and your wife Gina come to the United States to work here?
We arrived at Patterson in 2007.
We have fond memories of that time and it's something we still treasure.
Very good and now brother Paul Willis.
Where do you originally come from along with your wife, Selin?
And when did you come to the United States?
Well, we're both originally from South Africa and we served there in Bethel for a number of years.
And then in 2010, we were transferred to work along with MEPS programming here in the U.S.
So what type of work have you been involved with, particularly recently?
Well, most of my time at Bethel, I've been working on the Watchtower translation system or WTS.
Actually, I was working along with Pierre.
Pierre was in headquarters and I was working on the programming team that we had in South Africa.
WTS is the program that the translators use to help organize and manage their translation work.
And then of course, most recently, I've been working on the mobile apps, the JW Library app and the JW Library Sign Language app.
Very good. Well, now all of you work in MEPS programming.
Pierre, can you just tell us a little bit? We're familiar with the term MEPS, but what really is it?
Well, MEPS stands for multi-language electronic publishing system.
That didn't help me at all. Sorry. Can you make it a little bit more simple as I can understand?
We make the tools or the programs that the organization needs to make publications
and have them translated into hundreds of languages.
So I can illustrate it this way that we are not making the spiritual food,
but we are building a conveyor belt for the spiritual food.
From the faithful and discreet slave and down to the printing presses,
or to our website, or to what's our library, online library, or like in this case, JW Library.
Thanks so much. Now, along last I do understand a bit more about what MEPS means.
Now, as I travel around, the brothers and sisters, they tell me how much they love JW Library.
But there seems to be no end to the suggestions for improvements, features,
long list of suggestions. Can you give us a little bit of an idea of what's involved
with trying to develop a new feature with JW Library?
Yes, the brothers and the sisters really love using the app.
And because of that, they're keen to get many new features.
Of course, we wish we could just add all those new features into the app,
but the truth is, we just can't.
Yes, adding each new feature involves a lot of work.
And we also need to determine whether a feature that's requested,
is that just a nice to have, or is it something that's going to address a real need?
For example, will it really help an elder who's out on a shepherding call,
or maybe a pioneer sister who's at the public witnessing cards,
or at a Bible study, or a turn visit?
Also, very important to us is trying to make each new feature very simple to use.
Thanks for doing that.
Especially for a first-time user. Someone has never used the app before.
And then, of course, before we start working on anything,
we always get approval from the governing body.
That's a good thing to do, too.
One feature that many have been asking for is the ability to add notes into the app.
And of course, before we start programming it,
we have to make sure that it actually does what is wanted.
We have made a video that shows how we go on that.
Would you like to see it?
Well, of course, I'd love to see it.
Hello.
How are you?
Good, good, good.
Thanks for coming.
Fine, thank you.
Have a seat.
Right, so glad you could be here.
Thank you so much.
It was all fancy.
Yeah, so we get to talk about GW Libraries today.
So, what are some ways that you use GW Library?
I mean, it's a revolution that is going to meetings.
Oh, wow.
I go to meetings sometimes and I just carry my iPad.
So the fact that you can make this text larger?
It's easy to listen to the reading right in the app now,
and so I find myself doing that.
So, if we were to make a notes feature,
what are some things that you'd like to be able to do?
I mean, if you could see all your notes without tapping on each one,
that would be great.
And even if you make a note in maybe your phone
and that it can also be saved in your tablet, that would be really nice.
Well, what if I told you that in front of you
is an early version of GW Library.
This is it?
With notes.
Yeah.
So, a few months ago, the government body gave us approval
to start working on the notes feature.
We got together as a team and we'll do like these rough sketches
and the programmers write code.
But before we release an update, we have a group of testers.
You know, they'll find little glitches or bugs or things,
but they'll try to work it out with the programmers.
After that, we have a pretty stable version of GW Library.
The goal is to show it to you
and you can let us know what you think.
So, now that you've seen the new notes feature in GW Library,
what do you think?
I'd love that I can tag the personal things that I need to work on
or a common or a scripture that I can encourage someone with.
This is fantastic.
Yeah, that's great.
I like that I can find my notes, especially using the search feature.
And it's really neat how my comments,
I can place it right next to the paragraph for meetings
and it doesn't cover the actual text.
The ability to back it up so you can restore it to another device
that's going to be really helpful.
I love it.
Okay, go ahead.
That's fantastic.
That's fantastic, but brothers,
you can't show us something like that
and not tell us when we're going to get it.
Well, we said on the website it was coming soon.
I know you said that on the website, but when?
Is it okay to be more specific than that?
I think that's why they invited us here.
Paul, let's hear it.
Well, we're happy to tell you that the notes feature in GW Library
will be coming soon and by soon,
we mean during May of 2017 this month.
So, we can go and check the app stores for an update.
Oh, that's wonderful to hear.
So, all of us will be happy to be able to put our own reminders
right there in the GW Library app.
Well, that's looking forward to being able to do that as well.
But now, what I've got you here,
we're not going to let you go until we ask this big question.
What are you working on now?
In other words, what can we expect to see soon
with GW Library?
We have another brief video showing what the team is working on
to support the study Bible on GW Library app.
Would you like to see it?
That's wonderful. Let's have a look.
Later this year,
work will begin on adding the study edition
of the New World Translation to GW Library.
When this edition becomes available in your language,
you will be able to discover spiritual gems in the study notes
and the new media gallery will help you to visualize the people,
places and things you read about.
You will also see the new overviews of each book
play the introductory videos and study additional appendix material.
All of this and more is coming soon
to GW Library.
That sounds so exciting.
So we'll look forward to getting that feature.
You said coming soon, didn't you?
Anyway, we'd like to thank you very much
for the fact that you've come along
and you've explained so much to us about
what goes on with MEPs programming and the GW Library app.
But before you go, we'd like to ask you,
when you go back to your department,
please take an expression of our appreciation
back to the hardworking brothers and sisters
who were working behind the scenes
and providing this tool for us.
We'll do this. Thanks.
Thank you very much.
And speaking of behind the scenes,
do you remember the beautiful dramas
we had at the regional convention last year?
One of them was about King Hezekiah.
We saw not only the threat Jehovah's people faced,
but also the protection Jehovah provided.
In producing the drama,
the audio video services department used a lot of visual effects.
Let's go behind the scenes
and find out what the work entailed.
The goal of our visual effects team
is to take the work done during film production
and expand it.
Our work was driven by the Bible account.
The audience needed to feel the intimidating power
of the Assyrian army while not endangering our actors.
And the use of visual effects
had the added benefit of drastically saving donated funds.
But this meant creating hundreds of digital arrows,
war machines, cities, tents, soldiers,
and even an Assyrian palace.
In some cases, the foreground elements
had to be separated from the background
so digital components could be added.
This was a time-consuming process.
As many foreground elements
had to be cut out, frame by frame,
24 times for each second of video.
Our research team ensured the world created
was as accurate as possible.
For example, having period correct materials
for the temple, as well as accurate stone reliefs.
After filming was complete,
the research team noted some scenes
in the treasury were accidentally shot
showing priests wearing sandals.
As this was inaccurate,
the issue was corrected by generating
additional digital treasures
and placing them in the foreground.
As we didn't have the luxury of 185,000 extras,
actors were dressed in ancient costumes
and their pictures taken.
We then used these pictures to create digital extras,
using crowd-simulating software
to place them in the scenes and drive their movements.
The angel shot proved to be one of the most challenging.
The original version didn't have
the dramatic feel needed for the scene,
so the entire sequence was recreated
to more accurately convey
the immense power those present must have witnessed.
Finishing this project on schedule
had many challenges.
After hearing about just a few of them,
one industry expert said
what we were attempting was impossible.
But like Hezekiah,
when hearing negative reports,
we stayed positive and relied on Jehovah.
With his help,
the film was completed on time
and is now a wonderful tool
to bring this Bible account to life.
A beautiful drama
and how encouraging it was
to see Jehovah rescue his people.
The 2016 Regional Convention
was excellent, don't you agree?
But you'll be happy to know
that we've prepared a little glimpse
of what is to come
at this year's convention
to wet your appetite.
Are you okay?
Brian, I'm worried.
You need more money.
Jehovah will take care of us.
He always has.
We have enough.
Maybe enough for today.
But what if you get sick?
Gloria's mother keeps badgering her
and me to move up.
I can get a job
in my uncle's real estate firm.
Maybe this is an answer to our prayers.
What about your pioneering?
What about it?
I can do both.
Gloria, I must congratulate
on your hard work with my company.
But you must learn to keep your religion
in its place.
We're neglecting family worship,
study, service.
We've even become too busy
or maybe too ashamed to even pray together.
I'm concerned about you.
One of the things
that you always talk to me about
was Matthew 624.
You cannot slay for God and for riches.
You're not the same person that I once knew.
Dad, where's mom?
She is coming, right?
Is it really wrong
to try and improve our life?
Mom, mom, mom.
Remember the wife of God.
If you have yet to make definite plans
to attend your regional convention this year,
don't delay.
Our conventions are a loving provision from Jehovah.
Whatever it takes,
talking to your boss to get time off work
or making travel plans,
yes, whatever it takes,
our efforts are worth it
because we truly treasure Jehovah's Reminders.
Jesus' words in Matthew 1128 are very appropriate
considering everything we go through
in the system of things.
Come to me.
All you who are toiling and loaded down
and I will refresh you.
Yes, conventions can be of refreshment to us,
giving us the boost we need.
But such refreshment is also available
when the world around us seems to be falling apart.
How does the organization help our brothers and sisters
in times of national crisis?
We met two witness couples
who personally experienced
two of the largest terrorist attacks in recent years.
Not a day goes by when we don't think about our son poorly.
There was horror and suffering.
Things we don't want to witness anymore.
September 11th was a very scary, terrifying day.
I asked for me when I really understood what was happening.
I got scared.
I didn't know what to do.
I didn't know what to think.
When the second tower fell,
Paulie was on 110th floor.
And everybody was shouting, crying.
I was praying to Jehovah
because I was heartbroken.
We live on Voltaire Boulevard.
It's a broad avenue.
There is a concert hall called the Bataclons.
When the doors of the Bataclons are open,
we can hear everything that goes on inside.
That night, three men entered the Bataclons concert hall
and they started shooting into the crowd.
We immediately grabbed our gold bags
and then we sat in front of the sofa
and we begged Jehovah for his holy spirit
so we could face the situation.
It was around 10 pm when there was a news flash
that announced that there was an attack.
I was in shock when I heard the news.
And then I immediately thought about our brothers and sisters.
I quickly got in contact with the circuit officer
in order to get some news about our brothers and sisters
to know how they were doing.
Then, very early the next morning,
we set up an emergency committee
made up of several brothers from the service department.
We decided to write a letter
and make other arrangements
to assist the friends who, in one way or another,
were affected by this event.
In turn, the circuit officer would make an effort
to rapidly get in touch with the elders
to oversee the affected territory.
One of our challenges on a personal level
was whether we would even be able
to encourage our brothers and sisters
because we had never experienced such a terrible event.
We organized ourselves, we paired up as elders
and headed off to do shepherding.
We started calling mid-morning on Tuesday.
We received a report back from all the traveling overseers
by the end of Thursday.
And unfortunately,
we learned that 14 of our brothers and sisters
had lost their lives.
We knew that we needed to encourage the families.
We knew that we needed to shepherd them as soon as possible.
The elders immediately came.
We went over the book of Job.
And I just listened, you know, I was just listening.
I've heard the same words before, but it was different now.
The things that were being said
went straight to my heart.
A few days later, we were visited by two brothers from Bethel.
It was very touching that they came to see us
and that they were concerned about us.
It shows us that Jehovah was aware of how we felt that night.
Our brothers were there. They were ready to help one another out.
Then there was so much empathy and love shown.
When we were ultimately granted access to ground zero
and we started encountering the first responders,
that we let them know how much we appreciated their hard work
and that they had a skill set that we didn't have.
But yet our skill set was trying to offer comfort to them.
We shared a scripture with them.
Immediately we could tell that that was something that caused emotion
to rise up in them right away.
And they expressed great appreciation for that.
It's one of the beautiful things about the scriptures
is that they're calming, soothing, comforting.
And the scriptures did not let down the workers
that were there at ground zero either.
The visit of the brothers from Bethel was really a gift from Jehovah.
It showed his genuine interest in us.
It was really wonderful.
After the brothers visited us,
we felt so comforted.
So encouraged that we said to each other,
we have to get back in the ministry
and comfort people in the territory.
We have to console our brothers and sisters as well.
We can only thank and glorify Jehovah
who really is a God of love.
I kind of felt Jehovah's hands just reaching out to me,
which I needed.
But I cannot wait to the day that I'm totally refreshed
where I can see.
I can actually see Paulie.
I can see him just coming back into our lives
and I want to embrace him so much.
After something like this, we are not the same.
With the help of the organization, the brothers,
Jehovah's death for us,
so that is refreshing.
And I thank Jehovah for what he wants to do for me,
but also for the millions of people that feel the same way.
What these couples went through was a horrible reminder
of Satan's rule,
but we look forward to the relief from Jehovah,
the only true hope we have.
Reminders of Jehovah's care,
such as these interviews,
can be the joy of our heart, as the Sama said.
Yes, the reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy,
making the inexperienced one wise.
Before we conclude,
let's visit our brothers and sisters in India.
India is the second most populated country in the world
with a population of some 1.2 billion people.
The kingdom preaching work is conducted by some 45,000 brothers and sisters
in 627 congregations.
And last year, close to 125,000 people attended
the memorial of Christ's death.
Our visit brings us to P. Remind,
which is located in the southern tip of the Indian Peninsula
in the state of Kerala.
This town is located some 914 meters
or almost 3,000 feet above sea level.
It is a land of spices and lush greenery
with tea and coffee plantations.
The two congregations there have a total of 70 publishers.
Many of them work in tea estates
and struggle to make a living.
They are eager users of the JW Library app,
which they use to share our videos and publications in the ministry.
As P. Remind is a hill station,
their territory consists of rugged and uneven terrain.
Since the congregations there are watching this program together with all of us,
we wanted to take this opportunity to convey their warm Christian greetings
to all of Jehovah's people around the world.
We love you very much.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.